Development of ROS began in the mid-2000s as
Project Switchyard in Stanford's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
In 2007, ROS became a formal entity with support from Willow Garage.
Since 2013, the Open Source Robotics Foundation has been maintaining and developing ROS.
One of the primary motivations for developing ROS was
the recognition that researchers were constantly reinventing the wheel.
There weren't many reusable robotics software components
that could be used as a starting point for a project.
In addition, because different groups were all working on custom solutions,
it was difficult for them to share code and ideas.
It was also difficult to compare results.
ROS aims to facilitate the development process by eliminating these problems.
So who uses ROS?
Lots of people and lots of companies.
There are drones, kinematic arms, wheeled robots,
and even bipedal robots out there using ROS, every day.